Well, Thomas Ephreed, thanks so much for
being on here today with Patriots with
Grit. You are a professor of biology at
Boston College. You've been there for
going on four decades. You have quite
the uh the history in the study of
cancer. Uh I've been seeing Randy Dr.
Seaff Freed's videos on Instagram for
like the last four or five weeks and the
same guy and I'm like, who is this guy?
Because he seems to kind of somewhat
know what he's talking about a little
bit and he's on all these different
shows that are much bigger than ours by
the way. So Randy went on a bird dog
hunt and started hunting you down and
found you, Dr. Seaf Freed. And I just
want to say thank you for joining us
here today. We're going to talk about a
topic that is so uh so concerning, so
near and dear to so many people. I think
we've all been touched by people for
sure in our families and especially
pets. I know I've had five dogs, three
died with cancer. I've had family
members that have been diagnosed and
unfortunately passed away with cancer as
have you, Randy. So we wanted to bring
someone on that is an expert in the
field of cancer and the study of cancer.
and we thought what better person than
to have you on. So, thank you so much
for being on here today.
>> Well, thank you very much. It's a it's a
real pleasure to be here.
>> We wanted to uh we were watching some of
your documentation and and some of your
videos earlier and there's so many
things. It's such a deep a deep topic.
Um I think people want to just get right
to it and say, "How do you prevent it?
How do you understand it? How do you
treat it?" But I think there's a lot
more things that we need to have you
discuss to lead up to those uh possible
treatments, possible prevention. So,
just we're just going to let you just
kind of take this uh take this show and
run with it and uh just kind of pretend
like we were two uh two students in your
classroom and educate us and our
audience at the same time.
>> Well, well, well, thank you very much. I
as a matter of fact when I do teach my
class on cancer metabolism the first
thing I ask the students is okay what do
you know about cancer and um the first
thing that almost all the students in
the class say is oh it's cancer is a
genetic disease and um I I I said where
where did you where did you learn that
from and they said well all the
textbooks uh tell us that the professors
in the department uh tell us that I some
of these kids they well I heard it in
high school. Now I heard it again in
freshman biology and genetics. They
always say cancer is a disease caused by
gene mutations.
And I say well this class will show you
uh in my class on cancer metabolism uh
cancer is a metabolic disease. I will
show you the hard evidence that that
cannot be the case. And of course the
kids are bewildered like well why would
you uh have knowledge or evidence that's
contradictory to what the entire uh
world establishment uh thinks? what what
what evidence do you have that we have
never heard about? And then I go through
uh information
uh that brings them to understand and we
have to take it slowly um because we
need to show alternative evidence
challenging the dogmatic view that it is
a genetic disease. So if you say that
cancer well if it's not a genetic
disease what are you saying it is and I
say it's a it's a disease of of
mitochondrial energy metabolism and of
course uh uh kids coming into the
biology they're mostly seniors in
biology they know exactly what
mitochondrian is it's the organel inside
the cytoplasm of the cell that generates
the energy so um like for example how
would you best describe that uh well we
breathe uh why Why are we breathing? Um,
every time I take a breath, every time
you guys take a breath, uh, we're
bringing oxygen into our body. And we
exhale. And what we exhale is is vapor,
water vapor, and and CO2, carbon
dioxide. And I said that carbon, carbon
dioxide is coming from the breakdown of
the foods that that we ate. And the
water is coming uh as the byproduct of
energy metabolism. So we bring in
oxygen, it combines with electrons to
produce water inside the mitochondria
and the water is dissipated out of the
mitochondria and the CO2 is a gas. So we
bring oxygen in and we release CO2 as a
gas and we blow it out. So the waste
products of efficient energy metabolism
the waste products are oxygen uh uh CO2
and water. CO2 and water are the waste
products of uh of normal respiration.
Now if we were to have uh stop breathing
uh obviously if if you stop breathing
long enough you're going to die. Um uh
and let's look at people who have acute
heart attacks for example. uh a person
who would fall down with a cardiac
arrest, if they're not uh attended to
quickly, uh they will die. Uh so they
either get heart compression or
electroshock or whatever they need to do
to get that heart beating again. But if
you were to look at the bloodstream
of the person who had the heart attack,
you would find very very rapidly an
increase of lactic acid and suinic acid.
um we say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, what's
going on with that?" Okay, so our our
oxygen that we bring into our body
allows our brain and all of our organs
to work very very energetically
efficient. You're you are listening to
me. You're looking at me. All of these
things are energy derived. If you were
to have a heart attack, man, you black
out. You fall down. You don't see
anything. You don't feel anything as
your head bounces off the the You don't
feel pain. You just fall down. uh
because all of the energy, all of the
systems in our body that require energy
all of a sudden are shut down. Now, you
don't die instantly. Now, here's the
interesting thing. You don't die
instantly. Unless someone can come back
and get your heart going, you're going
to wake up and say, "What the hell
happened? Where what I I thought I was
dead. I didn't know where I was." you
know I so um but in that short interim
between the cardiac the heart stopping
and you falling down uh the body
immediately switches to an alternative
form of energy which is called energy
without oxygen and this is called
fermentation but it's very very
inefficient and you have to have a lot
of fuel around the body cells to replace
the energy that's been lost from
breathing breathing oxygen. But that can
happen uh uh for a short period, 5
minutes. If you don't get the oxygen
back into your body in about 5 minutes,
you're you're going to be deceased
depending on what kind of shape you're
in when it when the event happens. So
your body fills up with these acids and
these are the breakdown products of an
alternative form of energy that we have
in our bodies called fermentation
energy. Energy without oxygen. Okay. So
um in order to dry keep your cells alive
you have to have an alternative source
of energy when oxygen stops and that's
fermentation energy but it's very
inefficient and wasteful but the and we
have to have a lot of the fuel uh
because oxidative phosphorilation is so
highly efficient. We can do everything
by just breathing oxygen and having a
tiny amount of glucose uh to fuel this
process in the presence of oxygen. But
when oxygen stops, you better make sure
you have a massive amount of glucose and
a massive amount of another fuel called
the amino acid glutamine to replace the
efficiency of what we just lost.
>> If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rockermeer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement.
Starting with the general scientific
concepts by Dr. Thomas Ciphford. We will
show you how to start the ketogenic
diet, including which foods to choose
and which to avoid. Additionally, we
prepared a list of doctors specialized
in metabolic therapy, as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen protocols. So, take a
look around at school.com/ keto for
cancer.
So uh and and and if and and and that's
why our bloodstream builds up with these
waste products and as soon as you start
breathing again and the heart comes back
the waste products disappear from the
bloodstream. So um and I think people
people understand that this is what we
see with when we stop um breathing. Now
you can also cyanide is a people know
cyanide is a poison. Uh, I think it was
James Jo the Jones. Remember that uh
cult thing they
>> Jim Jones? Oh, Jim Jones.
>> Yes. Jim Jones, you drink the Kool.
Remember they always say the concept
drink the Kool-Aid. You heard that,
right? Okay. The Kool-Aid was laced with
cyanide. Okay. So, cyanide immediately
shuts down oxidative phosphorilation.
But unlike the heart attack, it doesn't.
It's binds it up and you're dead. You
don't you can't recover from a cyanide.
Most people can't recover quickly from a
cyanide poisoning. That's why some
people take cyanide to kill themselves
and you die because you shut down all
the energy in your body. Okay, that's
normal respiration. That's normal energy
metabolism in our body. Now, let's talk
about the cancer cell. Uh how does that
differ from what I just described uh in
normal uh respiration? So, u the cancer
cell uh can survive in cyanide. So if
you take cancer cells and put them in a
culture dish and you give them cyanide,
they they they don't die. Wow. Uh Anna
Warberg said years and years ago, uh the
German scientist from the 1920s,
fascinating individual, fascinating
story. He said cancer cells are always
using this alternative fermentation
energy throwing out all this lactic acid
even in a presence of 100% oxygen. So um
why do they continue to produce the
waste product when oxygen is is present
in abundance? Because as I said when we
recover from the heart attack and we
start breathing we get rid of this waste
product this lactic acid but the cancer
cell continues to produce lactic acid
even in the in the presence of 100%
oxygen even all the oxy cancer cell
continues with this uh very inefficient
abnormal energy metabolism and he he he
speculated based on the biochemistry
that all cancers regardless of where
they come from bladder colon breast
brain, they all have the same common
problem. They continue to produce this
waste product uh even in the presence of
100% oxygen. And he concluded that there
must be something wrong with the
mitochondria in these tumor cells
because if the mitochondria were normal,
you wouldn't produce this wa this lactic
acid waste product. So he concluded that
all cancers have a fundamental problem
in the way they uh deal with energy, the
way they generate energy. They seem to
be locked into a very inefficient energy
system even in the presence of oxygen.
And in order for them to continue to
grow and spread, they have to have large
amounts of this glucose fuel uh to drive
them. So uh that was the origin of the
mitochondrial metabolic theory of cancer
that cancer is basically a disease of
the organel that generates energy not
the gene mutations in the nucleus but
the defect in this other organel the the
nucleus is one organel contains the DNA
and regulates all the genes and all this
other kind of stuff but the real origin
is some defect in this other organel
that generates energy it's locked into
this uh fermentation
primitive kind of of of energy. Uh what
Warberg did not know and what we've
discovered is that there is a second
fuel besides the sugar glucose that also
replaces oxidative breathing energy and
that's a an amino acid called glutamine.
It's the most abundant amino acid in our
body. And when the person has the heart
attack, they throw out the two waste
products which are the lactic acid
coming from glucose and the suinic acid
coming from glutamine. Now it wasn't
known. All the cardiac guys knew that
these two fuels were exploding in the
bloodstream. But we also found suinic
acid exploding in the cancer cells. But
the cancer cells are throwing out the
suinic acid
u because their mitochondria they can't
get energy. So they're using the
glutamine as a secondary source to
glucose. So the two fuels that are
replacing oxidative phosphorilation
uh are driving the disregulated cell the
disregulated growth of the tumor cell.
So it comes down to how normal cells get
energy versus how tumor cells get
energy. And the tumor cells by throwing
out these waste products of lactic acid
and suinic acid are telling us in no
uncertain terms that we are living and
growing in your body on these two
fermentable fuels. And if you take those
fermentable fuels away from these tumor
cells, they will die. So um for whatever
reason the we've known about this, but
the oncology community fails to
recognize what I just said. The other
thing of course is that
uh we can trans tumor cells being locked
into these fermentable fuels glucose and
glutamine because their mitochondria are
incapable of getting energy from from
sufficient energy from oxygen.
Because they can't do that that means
they can't burn ketone bodies or fatty
acids. Also cancer cells cannot use
fatty acids or ketone bodies in replace
of to replace glucose and glutamine. So
they are locked into these two fuels
where the normal if you and I were to
stop eating for several days uh we
mobilize fats out of our uh body goes to
the liver. Liver chops up the fatty like
just like you put a big branch in that
wood chipper. It chops a big branch into
small pieces. So our bodies take fatty
acids out of our atapost tissue. It goes
to the liver which is like a chopper and
chops up these longchain fatty acids
into these small water soluble ketone
bodies which then replace the glucose
that our normal cells uh would need. So
we can lower glucose and transition the
whole body over to a fuel that that you
have to have good mitochondria to burn.
So the tumor cells can't do that. So
they become marginalized. So we can uh
separate the rest of our normal cells of
the body from the tumor cells by
transitioning the whole body to fatty
acids and ketone bodies and then
simultaneously targeting the two fuels
that the tumor cells need to grow. And
if we take that because the rest of the
body is protected because they're
burning the fatty acids. The tumors
can't burn the fatty acids.
>> So we essentially have to starve that
cancer out of the two things it needs.
>> Yeah. and transition the body over to
the fuel the cancer cell can't use.
>> Okay. So then what what have you found
is the way to do that?
>> Okay. So uh of course we tested all this
in preclinical models of of of
legitimate cancers not these genetically
constructed things. So we we have our
natural models in mouse that develop
spontaneous cancers just like humans.
And then after we tested our hypothesis
based on Warberg's central theory of
course um uh that cancer cells are have
broken mitochondria and they have to be
fermentative and the field was always
confused because they said oh we can
take glucose away uh from cancers and
they can still grow but they never
targeted the glutamine. So we we were
the first group to really find that the
alternative fuel this amino acid
glutamine can also work together with
the glucose as a powerful synergy. So in
order to get the cancer cell you have to
take both fuels away simultaneously
and then transition the body. So how do
you do that in a person? Well uh we've
just published a big uh protocol for the
first time for glyopblastoma which is a
deadly brain cancer. Uh but we did it
but that if you read between the lines
we made it so that anybody that really
understands can say geez can I do this
for liver can I do it for breast can I
do it for colon can I do it for for any
other cancer and the answer is
absolutely we just chose glyopblastoma
because they have nothing uh uh there's
been no advance in managing bra
glyopblasto in almost 100 years so if we
can make a dent on that cancer all the
other cancers will fall into line. So,
um, so, so, so we published that and the
answer is, okay, so what do we do? So,
when you're first diagnosed with cancer,
of course, it's a shock. Everybody's
like blown out. Oh my god, I'm going to
die. All this kind of stuff. And they're
all upset. And, uh, and so what we do is
the first step, uh, we do a complete
blood work on the patient. It turns out
that many cancer patients not only
suffer from the fact that they have a a
neoplasm a growth a neoplastic abnormal
growth tumor if you will um but they
often find they have type two diabetes
they have obesity high blood pressure
hypertension there's like a whole slug
of other things not always but many
people who do have cancer also have a
constellation of other comorbidities
so we got to get that person's
bloodstream and uh body back into some
state of normaly and we know what blood
parameter you go to the doctor they say
oh you got this you're out of
triglycerides a little out of balance
high density lipo all this kind of stuff
so we try to bring that back into some
level of normaly and the way we do that
is we start them on a zero carbohydrate
diet and that could be uh vegan it could
be carnivore it could be pescatarian it
could be Mediterranean it doesn't make
any difference and and we published a
ratio of glucose the ketones in the
blood called the glucose ketone index
and we published this uh for cancer
patients but now we realize that a lot
of people who don't have cancer want to
get a low GKI so they never get cancer
so it's a preventative as well as a
therapeutic uh but but if a person who
is eating the great diet uh American
diet and lifestyle will have a very high
GKI they'll have a lot of highly
processed carbohydrate foods they'll and
you'll look and it's about uh the G GKI
can range anywhere from 45 to 65. In
order to manage cancer, you got to get
that thing down to 2.0 and below. So,
how do you do that? So, you and we used
to start it became too extreme. If you
guys ever stop, do you ever try to stop
eating like just drink water for a few
days? Oh my god, it's a butt. Horrible.
Horrible. I tried it, man. I I I was
like Jesus Christ. I mean the I I I I I
you know my friend he he fed the we said
we're gonna go on a on a water only fast
for a few days and my good friend Mark
he said I was feeding my dog and I I was
overcome I had to leave the room you
know it was like one of these
>> eat the dog food.
>> Yes. So so so we realized going cold
turkey was too extreme for most people.
So, we realized that if you can just
eliminate carbohydrates, if you want to
eat a big tomahawk ribeye with with a a
broccoli stick next to it or whatever,
or just, you know, eat chew some leaves
or eat a fish, it doesn't make any
difference as long as you don't have
carbs. And all of a sudden, after about
10 to 14 days, the glucose ketone index
in the person goes down and down and
down. And then all of a sudden, you see
the blood work starting to perk up. the
all these parameters start going back in
a normal direction. So, it's easier to
walk down the stairs to get to the first
floor then jump off the second floor and
get down there in two seconds.
>> Right. Right. Yeah. I mean, I could see
that. Do it a little bit at a time.
>> Yes. Walk down the the body has to
adjust to the elimination of
carbohydrates in the diet. It could come
from from anything from a plant or
whatever you're going to eat. And it and
it's culturally and religiously uh uh
balanced to whatever your culture and
religion says you can or cannot eat. You
just down downgrade it until you till
you reach this uh this zone. And then
your body starts to get super healthy.
Your body starts to readjust its
parameters and you've given it 10 to 14
days to to manage this. And in the
meantime, the poor cancer cells, they're
looking around where hey, what happened?
Where's where's my fuel? Where where's
my sugar? What am I doing? So um so then
they'll start slowly adapting more to
the to the glutamine which is still in
the environment. So we developed the
press pulse therapeutic strategy where
we can choke off the glucose by bringing
the glucose keynote index down and then
we come in with various non-toxic drugs
in a pulsing to uh restrict the
glutamine availability to the tumor. So
uh because the tumor will adapt to the
absence of glucose by by going towards
the glutamine which is the second fuel
driving the disregulated growth. So but
we can't be too aggressive like we can
with glue. We don't need glucose. Our
bodies can survive without glucose. We
can transition to ketones and fatty
acids. So we're not worried to we're not
worried about the glucose being uh
harmful in restricting glucose to a
person. But glutamine is an extremely
important amino acid in our body. It it
keeps our gut healthy, our ura cycle
healthy and our immune system uh our
immune system needs the same fuel that
the cancer cell needs. So you can't just
restrict that fuel for the whole body
because the very cells that we need to
help our healing are going to be damaged
as well as the tumor cell. So what we do
is we pulse the glutamine. Uh what what
that means is we use drugs that are used
sparingly for a short period of time to
kill tumor cells while they're choked
from glucose and then we pull that drug
off and let the immune system uh come in
and pick up the dead corpses, the dead
tumor cells because you need uh you got
to get rid of the dead bodies in your
and you're in if you're killing tumor
cells, who's taking care of the corpses?
So, our immune system comes in and
slowly clears the mess. And then as soon
as we allow that happen, we come back
and hit those cancer cells again while
we're choke holding the glucose. And
gradually, the body stays healthy and
allows the body to clean up the mess
gradually uh while you're targeting
these uh getting rid of the and the rest
of the body gets starts to get much
healthier.
>> What kind of what drugs what drugs you
talking about? We're not talking chemo.
>> No. Well, let me tell you the drugs that
we have found are don six deoxy norucine
which was used on cancer kids, children
and adults years ago. It was isolated
from a bacteria uh and it was kind of an
antibiotic
uh that was isolated years and years
ago. Uh the problem is they used it and
they said, "Oh, it didn't work too well
and it was a little too toxic and we
don't and you it was out of pat. You
can't make any money on it." So there
there was all these kinds of things. So
the bo the bottom line is we found a way
to bring that drug to the most powerful
one of the most powerful chemotherapies
that you can possibly imagine because we
got rid of the toxicity. We knew we
figured out how to how to detoxify keep
the therapeutic efficacy but removing
the toxicity by pulsing rather than uh
uh chronically administering the drug.
So uh once you realize that then you can
bring in chemo, radiation and you can
bring these other things in in small
doses to kill off any remaining tumor
cells with minimal if any toxicity to
the rest of the body. The the problem
today is we're going after these cancers
like a bull in a china shop. You're
you're doing everything in a wrong
context. You're not doing it the right
way. Shrink the damn tumor down. Take
away the inflammation. make those tumor
cells hanging on for their dear life.
They're this close to death. All we have
to do now is push a little of the
glutamine inhibition. A chemotherapy in
extremely low doses will have massively
powerful effects when the tumor cells
are already near the death are already
close to death anyway.
>> So we have
>> Oh, go ahead. I was going to say Thomas
upwards of two million people a year,
1700 people a day and about 70 people an
hour are dying from cancer. And you
mentioned earlier about they haven't
even made a dent in glyobblasto in the
last 100 years. The research that I've
done over the past three or four years
since co came out with just health in
general. They talk about you know we're
talking about cancer. They talk about
how the surgery, radiation and chemo are
the three main things that cardio uh
cancer doctors want to go to. Not
cardiologists oncologist. Yeah, tongue
tied today. Randy oncologists want to go
to How much of this Dr. Seaff freed is
it about the money? I mean I mean we
hear so much that it's it's such a
profitable disease and to continue
treating it and it just makes no sense
to me that we have a a disease that
we've been studying for 100 plus years
and it seems like it's getting worse,
not better. So it just doesn't seem to
add up. So talk to us a little bit about
that the the mortality rate on a daily,
hourly, annual basis and the the money
involved and
why why is there no ethics and why is it
all about the bottom line?
>> Well, it's not just about the bottom
line, although the bottom line is
certainly a a major contributor to what
you what you just said in no uncertain
terms.
um uh what it is is the theory uh uh
that directs their youu their research
and directs the treatment. uh if if the
if the uh National Institutes of Health
and uh National Cancer Institute if you
go to the National Cancer Institute
website NCI it says that cancer is a
genetic disease that cancer is over 100
different diseases all caused by
different combinations of of mutations.
uh this is called the somatic mutation
theory of cancer and and science is
driven by the theories under which we
try to explain the phenomenon.
uh an example of this uh to give you to
put it into historical uh context. Uh we
can look at many but one of the clearest
examples of of of of this phenomenon is
the heliocentric geocentric uh theory of
the movement of the planets for 1,800
years based on the work of Aristotle and
Tami. It was thought that the earth was
immovable
uh and that planets and the sun uh all
revolved around the earth and they would
develop these incredibly complicated uh
epicycles deference equants and it
looked like a big ball of thread uh
around the earth trying to predict uh
where when these plan the planet would
move and then twist around and go in a
different direction and and uh uh the
scientist Copernicus from Poland
struggled with these calculations.
uh for many many years. And then he said
if we put if we think the earth might be
movable like the other planets and put
the sun in the center of the solar
system and have the earth and the other
planets revolve around the sun
everything made sense. the the whole the
whole it was called the capernician
revolution and uh and then science
exploded uh after that astronomy and all
these different sciences only because he
shifted the position earth became
another planet that could move and it
was another planet that revolved around
the sun right now we all take that for
granted but for 1800 years based on
Aristotle and Tommy no no and and
religious organizations said oh no no
No, no. Earth is the primary everything
revolves. We are the center of the
universe. All this kind of stuff. So in
coming back to cancer, when you say that
cancer is a genetic disease, people are
focusing on the mutations in the nucleus
of the cell. Uh we and others have shown
that those mutations are coming from
damage to the oxidative body.
There's three types of gases in the
body. Oxygen, carbon dioxide, and nitric
oxide. Cardio Miracle is your advanced
formula, nitric oxide booster, and
provides you a sensual support for
increased vitamin D3 and blood flow and
oxygen, cellular health and
reproduction, improved cardiovascular
health, enhanced energy and clarity, and
it supercharges your sexual stamina.
So start reclaiming your health today
and increase your energy, stamina, and
focus. Go to cardiomiracle.com. Enter
discount code grit. That's
cardiomiracle.com.
Discount code grit. Take advantage of
this awesome product and start feeling
better today. cardiommiracle.com
discount code grit. The geocentric
heliocentric theory of the of the solar
system with the somatic mutation theory
versus the mitochondrial metabolic
theory of cancer.
Is is that clear? So yeah. Okay. So
we're we're bringing the attention of
the disease to the mitochondria rather
than to the mutations in the nucleus. So
uh I have gone through the literature
and shown that those mutations in the
nucleus are not the drivers of
disregulated cell growth. They're an
effect of the damage to the
mitochondria. So once we realize that
cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
problem and driven by two fermentable
fuels and not being able to transition
to fatty acids and ketone bodies, the
approach to managing cancer becomes very
clear. Uh without toxicity you can
manage this disease. But again coming
back to your question about you know
money and finances we have built an
entire cancer industry around an
incorrect theory of what the nature of
the problem is. So the incorrect theory
has allowed an incredibly wealthy uh
infrastructure to develop around this
incorrect theory which is these very
highric cancer drugs, radiation,
imunotherapy, surgical, all this
hospitals are generating money. The NIH
spends millions of dollars giving out
grants to look at gene mutations in
cancer when they're largely irrelevant.
So uh the hospitals make money, the
pharmaceutical companies make money,
everybody's making huge amounts of money
causing not uh with therapies that not
only create a lot of uh physical uh uh
uh damage, physical stress, uh toxicity
uh but also financial toxicity. Uh this
is another tragic uh consequence of the
misunderstanding of what cancer is.
These poor folks living today paycheck
to paycheck working hard every day get
slapped with a 25,000 $35,000 cancer
bill. It throws their whole finances
into a tiff. Marriages fall apart.
People commit suicides. This is just as
immoral as what the hell we're doing in
the clinic when we have this kind of a
sit situation. Do you understand what
I'm saying?
>> Oh, I I totally get it. So, one thing I
wanted to to, you know, kind of bring to
light is it sounds like to me this is a
dietary thing. Uh, you know, we we have
a poor food system in the United States
and I'm I'm convinced that a what we
intake into our body is causing a lot of
these cancers. What is your opinion of
that?
>> Well, clearly it's it's a diet lifestyle
issue. It's not just the poor food that
we're eating. It's our lack of exercise.
It's the kind of stress that our new
society uh puts upon us for a variety of
reasons. Uh as I said uh when I went to
Korea uh I met an interesting fellow
actually he was Japanese um he said he
said we have a cancer diet and lifestyle
uh in the world of industrial countries
modern what we call modern modern kinds
of societies we we have very little
exercise
we have to go back to our paleolithic
ancestors and what how they lived don't
forget uh we're a modern man but we we
just didn't appear here uh 6,000 years
ago we We were around during the
Paleolithic periods and uh we chased
down animals, we killed them and we ate
them. So um we had a lot of exercise.
Yeah. So so anyway, we we we we have we
had in our history a lot of exercise. Um
we we had uh natural everything was
organic. Whether we dug it out of the
ground as a tuber or ate it off of a
bush or killed the animal, uh we ate
organic uh foods. Uh they were not
processed. They were not full of
carbohydrate. We didn't have
carbohydrates in our environment, highly
processed carbs. Um, we would, the only
time we would get something like that
would be during seasonal uh ripeness of
fruits and berries and things like that.
You could probably get a little bit more
sweet from that, but it wasn't constant
in our environment. Um, what else did we
have? We had we didn't have as emot as
much uh emotional stress uh technology
stress uh sitting in traffic uh being
freaked out about uh all these different
kinds of em the the main thing was like
where am I going to get my next meal? Do
I have to get when do I have to get off
my ass and go out and kill something?
You know um uh we didn't have as much
poor sleep as we have today. uh we're on
all kinds of meds and people can't
sleep, poor food, uh no happiness, we're
stressed out. All of these things
together with the highly processed
carbohydrates and the chemicals
uh from our industrialization that enter
into the food uh food streams are all
impacting negatively on our bodies
causing damage to the mitochondria and
leading to the formation of cancer which
is ultimately uh damaging our energy
capacity uh forcing the cells into a
compensatory fermentation. This is what
I said. The origin of cancer is chronic
damage to oxidative phosphorilation
coupled to a compensatory fermentation
caused by all of these different things
that I just listed. Yes. Poorly
nutritious foods. Yes. Uh um uh stress.
Yes. Uh uh um poor sleep, no exercise.
Put all that together, we have an
obesity epidemic. Uh high high uh
diabetes, chronic diseases coming out
everywhere. Um, as I said to people, the
obesity epidemic is evolution in action.
Our ancestors, and we know this
absolutely because um, Albert Schwitzer
visited uh, tribes of people on the
planet that lived according to their
traditional ways. And cancer was unheard
of. They didn't even know what the hell
cancer was. These guys were out working
all the time, exercising, eating the
natural products of their environment,
right? They didn't have cancer. Cancer
explodes in in in in populations once
the great American diet and lifestyle
comes into your into your existence. And
now we have it in China. We have it in
all the industrial countries are having
this problem. We have an obesity
epidemic. The people that are obese
today
are are the descendants of ancestors
that were able to survive in the most
harsh environmental conditions storing
energy because we needed to store
energy. It was ice age. We were tracking
animals, man. And if we didn't have
energy, we wouldn't have we would have
been eliminated as a species. And our
bodies are are just storing energy
because that's what we evolved to do.
And we have an obesity epidemic. So the
obesity, which is type two, diabetes,
cardiovascular disease, cancer,
dementia, you can put the whole package
into the same into the same thing. We're
living in a totally different kind of
environment than what we involved to. It
takes thousands and thousands of years
to change the physiology of the body.
But our technology has rapidly increased
over the last hundred years. It's
completely rapidly. We have our food
industry now. We have I don't know food
grown in in in in Venezuela. It comes to
our shops. It looks perfectly like we
grew it out in the backyard. It's a
world distribution of food. A lot of
these foods are are poorly nutritious.
They're uh and the chemicals in there
that are used to kill the insects.
Genetically modified foods. I mean, all
this stuff together and then you wonder
why you have obesity and cancer,
dementia, cardiovascular, it's not a
mystery. It's perfectly explainable.
Perfectly explainable based on
evolutionary biology.
>> So, when when I was researching this
stuff and looking about you're talking
about the energy and the fermentation, I
got to thinking about, okay, somebody's
got a cluster of cancer and it it one
day it's this size and then a week later
it's throughout their whole body.
is I mean my my first connection was
that this stuff was rapidly spreading
because it had lots of fuel.
>> Well, it's to this you're you're you're
you're half correct. Okay.
>> It has a lot it has lots of fuel. That's
that's absolutely correct. Now, here's
the situation.
>> Uh bear with me as I try to explain this
one. All right. Brace brace yourselves.
Are you braced?
>> I'm braced.
>> Okay. Took me 15 years to figure this
one out. We we we had a mouse uh that
had uh developed a spontaneous uh tumor
in the brain and uh uh when I took the
cells out of the brain of the mouse uh
because you can't really do too much.
The brain of the mouse is tiny but if
you grow it in the flank of the mouse
you can get enough tissue to do our
biochemical studies. And when we grew it
in the flank of the mouse all of a
sudden the cancer spread like everywhere
in this mouse. It came back to the
brain. It was in the lungs, the liver. I
said, "What the hell happened here?
Because I studied cancer for decades and
I every time you put the tumors into the
flank of the mouse, they stay there.
They form a great big mass on the side
of the mouse, but they never spread
anywhere. So I said, why is this cancer
that I put in the mouse spread like
everywhere? It's exploded all over the
place just like a human metastatic
cancer just like you said. Yeah.
>> Oh, where did it how did it spread all
over the place? So I had no idea at
first and then for 10 years I had a
couple of students. We dug deep into
this and um uh when we grow cells in
culture um uh we we can easily add a
salt solution and they come off the
dish. They they free themselves. They
detach easily and then you can separate
them and you get a whole little pellet
of cancer cells in a tube. You can put
them in a centriuge and spin them down.
And this tumor that spread all over the
mouse's body grown in the culture dish.
We couldn't we couldn't get they stuck.
They were like glue. It was like what
the hell? So, uh, one of my students
because, you know, you put some salt in
there, you bang the dish a couple of
times, and all the cells kind of just
trinkle and fall off into the into the
tube. And my students out there banging
banging all of a sudden, she breaks the
breaks the the the whole flask with the
tumor cells in there. She's banging,
thinking they were going to come off.
They were like stuck like glue. I'm on
the phone with my good friend Herb Yo,
uh, who worked with me at Yale and he
was up at Dartmouth and I said, ' Herb,
we can't get the damn cells off the
bottom of the D. He says to me, he says,
sounds like macrofasages to me. So that
macrofasage is part of our immune
system. It's one of it's it's like it's
like the Marine Corps. It could be your
best your best friend or your worst
enemy.
These are the cells that when you have
bacterial infections, they'll come in
and kill the bacteria. They heal wounds.
They do all kinds of things and they
circulate in our bloodstream uh like
like the middle you got a a wound they
come flying out of the bloodstream kill
the bacteria facilitate wound healing.
So we finally realized that the
metastatic cancer cell was was had these
macroofage characteristics. I did all
the molecular biology card carrying uh
macrofage. So I said wow this is
unbelievable. Then we went into the
human literature and we looked at lung
cancer, colon cancer, breast cancer,
brain cancer. Every one of the major
human metastatic cancers have these same
markers as the macrofas. So I said, "God
damn." I said, "You kidding me? You mean
these metastatic cancers?" So they come
into the tumor and they'll fuse with
those other cells and become these damn
hybrids and they explode out of the
tumor and spread all through your body.
Yeah. So So the first thing as a
biologist, what do they eat?
You got to go back and look at what. So
these guys from Oxford, England, the
Newcom have studied the food intake of
macrofasages their whole life. Like all
they did was what do macrofasages eat?
Turns out they love glutamine. So the gl
So I said, "What happens if we target
the glutamine?" Bang. We got rid of the
metastatic cancer. It's like
slaughtering the slaughtering. No matter
what organ they went to, you could
slaughter them. So you take away the
fuel. You can take away the fuel for the
glucose and now you know what your
adversary is. Once you know what your
adversary eats, you can starve it. And
if you don't know what your adversary
is, you have no clue. You're giving
these poor cancer patients infamiliar.
And once you understand the biology of
what you're dealing with, then you
understand how to kill it. So, uh,
that's unbelievable, right? Well,
Darren, I bet MD Anderson is using this
exact protocol.
>> They probably are. I I would not doubt.
>> I not not not anytime not today.
>> Well, speaking of that, you started out
the show about you're talking about the
the students that came to your class and
what they had been told by previous
teachers or professors or in textbooks.
is does does big pharma just have such a
strangle hold on this whole movement
that there's really no hope in in the
future because I know from some of the
research I've done with you prior to
this show you said it's projected to get
much worse by 2050 instead of getting
much better and as much money as we're
throwing into this donations you know
the the breast cancer fund runs and the
marathons and the donations to the
cancer society it seems to me like all
these millions and billions of dollars
that being poured in there, we would
come to an end point at some point and
say, "Okay, we've found the cure. We
found the prevention. Let's get this
thing wrapped up." But it seems like
it's almost getting worse.
>> Yeah. Well, that's because of the
theory. The theory says that it's a
genetic disease. And you have built
massive in infrastructure and you've
built massive industries around an
incorrect theory. So when the National
Cancer Institute says it's a genetic
disease and and you're giving grants,
millions of dollars of our taxpayer
money to give grants to people studying
something that's not relevant to the
nature of the problem, you're not going
to move the needle. And uh the the the
you know, everybody's backs slapping and
happy with the amount of money we can
charge for these damn cancer drugs. And
most of them are not targeting the fuels
that they're that are keeping the damn
cells alive. They're doing peripheral
things. So, so you look at the whole
thing, okay? Many scientists, Nobel
Prize guys and all the top all the
sophisticated guys with the ties and the
white shirts and the top Dana Farbers,
MD Anderson, Sloan Katarings all over,
you know, they think that they know what
they don't know and and a lot of them
don't. And if you ask oncologist, did
you hear that cancer can't live without
glucose? I never heard of it. I was if
it was important, I would have heard
about it in the medical school. You
don't hear.
>> They're not teaching it in medical
school.
>> No. So they're not getting uh and then
they get angry when the cancer patient
comes in and says, "I'd like metabolic
therapy. Can you target my glucose and
glutamate? What are you talking about?
That's not going to work."
>> Okay. So you see it's at so many levels
and the hospitals generate massive
revenue on buying big parcels of chemo
drugs at discount charging the insurance
companies uh radiation therapy,
chemotherapy, all these are big
blockbuster revenue generators. the the
pharmaceutical companies are making
them. The NI National Cancer Institute
says it's that. All the guys doing
genetic research think it's that and
then you tell them it's not that. What
do you think? What kind of response you
think you're going to get? You I must be
crazy.
>> No. No. You know, I'd heard you mention
something about treating the the
glutamine and using parasitic drugs.
>> Yeah.
>> So, just kind of give us a quick
nutshell on the parasitic drugs. And
when you said that, the first thing I
thought of is Ivormectin and
Fimbendazol. Is that maybe what you're
referring to, or is there something
else?
>> No, that and others. Okay. So, why would
I say that?
>> You tell me.
>> Okay. I I do a deep dive on this, right?
It's not like I pull this stuff out of
my butt.
>> No.
>> Right. No. Right. So, Oh, I think I
should use ivormectin. Why? I don't
know. I just thought it would be
>> Well, you read a few books, I think.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, uh, so listen,
um, there's a story behind this. And uh
uh there were some guys that had t tumor
cells uh and growing in rats. I can't I
think it was in Kansas actually. It
might have been out there in one of the
medical schools. Um the damn rats or
mice at that time. I think it was rats.
They got some sort of a parasitic
infection. They were growing tumors in
these rats and uh the uh the animal care
committee said, "Oh, you got to get rid
of the parasites. We can use some
fendazol. It's a kind of an
antiparasitic drug." So they get rid of
the parasites, but the tumor cells went
away. The can't the tumor shrunk and
disappeared at the same time. So uh they
said, "Oh, what's going on with that? Or
were they scratching their head? Oh,
gez, I don't know what happened." So I I
started to look into this a little bit
more. Now, here's the situation. We we
have discovered that cancer cells uh
rely on uh inside the mitochondria. As I
told you, and I'm get I'm sorry. I I
have to get a little deeper into the
science uh to try to explain this to
people because that organel that I said
generates tremendous energy efficiency
from oxygen
also has a second very minor way to get
uh energy through uh another form of
it's called substrate level
phosphorilation. doesn't involve uh
oxygen but it's a very tiny amount of
energy. Uh and then I I realized that
the parasites that many different
strains of parasites use that same
pathway
uh to um to get energy when when the
parasites reproduce to make more
parasites. They use oxygen. Like I said,
they breathe and they get energy. But
when they dissipate into your tissues
and take up residence whe regardless of
what kind of parasite it is, they start
to go back to this fermentation
mechanism uh to get energy through this
glutamine pathway. So um I said, "Damn,
are these parasites using the the cancer
cells are using the same pathway that
the damn parasites are using?
Now it makes sense. Now it makes sense.
Yeah. Well, that's because it was
politicized. You know, when you start
politicizing stuff and you you lose the
contact with science, then everything
gets jarble and completely screwed up.
So, it's not just Ivormectin. uh you can
use embendazol, fenbendazol, there's a
there's a whole cocktail of different
kinds of parasite medications uh that
could all be effective and what they're
doing in in they're targeting both
glucose and glutamine but they're not as
powerful as dawn the drug other drug
that I was telling you about now uh of
course what I'm saying to you because we
have evidence we've published we have
papers under review and we put we'll put
put one out saying that embend Mendisol
which is like fen bendazol they're very
similar structure
Yeah, it's targeting glutamine
metabolism. So the cancer cell is using
glutamine and it was a parasite was
using the same pathway as the tumor
cell. So obviously it works on the
cancer cell because it's targeting what
the parasite kills parasites and
cancers. But but they but it's not as
powerful as as lowering glucient into
GKI and then we also use parasite
medications along with Dawn. Don't
forget the the biggest problem, one I
would say a large problem that I have
and what we're talking about is we're
talking about managing uh a very uh
difficult disease on the cheap uh
without toxicity. Are you telling me
that we can replace all of these super
expensive toxic drugs and imunotherapies
and all this kind of stuff with what I'm
telling you? And the answer is yes. Uh,
but that does not necessarily mean I I
don't want to sound like I'm getting rid
of all the great standards of care, the
great radiations and the poisonous
chemicals and the imunotherapies and all
that stuff. Those all have their place.
They have a place in the eventual
management of the disease, but the place
they're in now is not the right place.
They are they are like when you go to
the dentist, they're part of the
cleaning. If you have a few surviving
tumor cells, you come in with these
other little bit of radiation here, a
little imunotherapy there, tiny amount
of chemo there, and you can eliminate
after you pair down this giant angry
population of cells to a few stragglers,
you can then come in with these other
therapies and polish them off. But what
we're doing today is we're coming in
with these therapies at the beginning,
often times making the problem even
worse than it was when you started. And
that's the reason why we have 1,700
people a day dying in this country.
8,100 a day dying in China. Uh we are we
we have all of the tools in the toolbox
to manage cancer effectively
non-toxically. We're just not knowing
how to use the tools correctly. And when
you challenge the system and say it's
not a genetic disease and you can do all
this stuff, there's a massive
resistance. You know, confirmation
biased. You're threatening my entire
career of distinguished work that I've
gotten millions of dollars from. You
can't be right. Well, we got 1,700
people day dying to say you guys are
right either.
>> Exactly. Yeah. So, it really comes down
to pride and profits overall.
>> Exactly. Yes.
>> Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Ciphford on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So, are we? That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rocker, a
German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paperbook via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereaded's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker Meyer has already
made at www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just
>> Yes.
>> I just don't see how some of these
people sleep at night knowing that the
research is out there.
>> They don't know. And that's the problem.
You you go down to the oncology clinic,
never heard what I what I just told you
guys, these guys never heard of it. So,
how can you get angry or how can you be
feel bad about something you have no
clue about?
>> Exactly. Yeah.
>> So, you have it's just human nature,
man. It's just you've invested enormous
amount of energy, time, distingu Nobel
prizes, all this kind of stuff in into
an approach that's not correct based on
an incorrect theory. This is what
happened with the uh epis the epicycles
and the movement of the planets. It got
more and more complicated. looked like a
ball of string. Everybody was trying to
figure out until you change the the
position of the earth and the sun.
Everything made sense. Same thing will
happen with cancer once the field comes
to realize that it's a mitochondrial
metabolic disease. And then they're
going to say, "Why the hell didn't we
know this all the time?" I'm telling
you, for Christ's sake, I've been
telling you for the last 30 years.
>> The way the way I see it is they're
going to figure it out and they're going
to go, "Oh, but what are we going to do
about this? We're not going to make any
money off of this." Well, there's always
an entrepreneur out there uh that will
figure out how to I'm not against that.
I I'm not I don't care about the money.
I just care about how how long we can
keep people alive and we're given
terminal diagnosis. That's my reward.
But there's there's other guys. I'm not
against those guys. If they can figure
out how to make a lot of money on the
stuff that we're doing and that the
future will be, and I'm sure there will
be. It's just that I that's not my
sphere. I I I can't work within that. I
don't know. So, have you worked with uh
I'm sure you've got some success
stories. You've you've had people that
have went on this protocol and u they've
you either became cancer-free or at
least controlled it.
>> Yeah. Uh we have well our really tragic
uh just happened last summer uh on Labor
Day. uh our good good friend and uh
Pablo Kelly from England uh a brain had
a glyopblastoma diagnosed 2014 a young
man uh he was kind of um a kind of class
in a way I don't like big I don't like
uh traditional medicine my whole family
was all holo stickick and all this kind
of stuff so he um he said the doctors
told him if he didn't over in England he
was in the NHS the healthcare Devon
Devon England Pablo Kelly he had a gal
blasto. We published this paper in in
Frontiers in Nutrition. Um uh we had my
a lot of our friends take the tissue and
we definitely confirmed that it was a
glyopblast. He had an IDH1 mutation
which actually makes it grow slower. Um
but he said no radiation, no chemo.
Pablo, you're going to be dead in nine
months to 12 months if you don't do
standard of care radiation and chemo. He
didn't even want surgery. He said no
surgery, no radiation, no chemo. And he
said I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna and
gleoblasto. says, he said, "I'm going to
go for it because he he wanted to have
children and he said, "If I have to get
radiation, uh, I have to put my sperm in
a bank or something or I can't remember
what all this stuff was, but anyway, um,
so I said to Pablo, and this was early
in our, we didn't really know about the
glutamine. We didn't know a lot about
this stuff. It was 2014. We're still
working on the details." And, uh, Pablo
said, "Well, I want to do your metabolic
therapy." And I said, "Well, you got to
get your GKI real low." I said you got
to take your blood sugar with the meter
every day, your ketones with the meter
and all this kind of stuff. So he
started doing that and uh the tumor uh
started to not grow it but it was there.
So it grew very very slowly and then
after two and a half years um on MRI
only uh he was had a biopsy and it said
glyopblasto and uh so I wanted to make
sure that it was a glyopblasto because
the pathologist from England said it was
a glyopblasto but that's only one. So
then I I brought it to my colleagues at
Thomas Jefferson uh medical school in
Philadelphia to take the same tissue
tissue sample and let their pathologist
diagnose what he had and they said
glyopblastoma. And then I had my good
friend Joe Maroon he's the team surgeon
for the Pittsburgh Steelers uh who is a
member of the of the neurosurgical
society of America and he had his
pathologist at the University of
Pittsburgh uh do the pathology on this
thing. All all three the English Thomas
Jefferson and Upupit all said
glyobblasto based on pathology. So I
said wow okay. So but glyobblasto will
kill you real quick if you don't do
anything right. So he went on he
rejected radiation he rejected chemo. He
he rejected all the stuff. Just did
metabolic stuff uh keeping his blood
sugar low. He was eating a diet very low
in carbohydrates. Uh all this kind of
stuff. And then the tumor grew slow. And
then and then he had a debulk. So we
said, "Okay, go let the surgeon take it
out." So he goes in and the surgeon now
debulks. They call it debulking, which
is the extraction of the tumor from from
the brain. And um and that and then they
about a month or two later, they said,
"Oh, we got it all." Because a lot of
times in GBM, they say, "We got 98% of
it. We didn't get it all." You know, all
this kind of stuff. But they said, "Oh,
we got it all." So Pablo goes back uh in
his normal uh ways of high carbohydrate
diets and then he goes in about six
months later we see the damn tumor back
again. So so so anyway put the fear of
God back into him and then he's back on
his low carbohydrate diet and you could
see the tumor stopped growing. Um you
could see it no longer advancing. It
started to get like stabilized. So it
was stabilized for another three years
and then it grew slowly slowly and then
he had a second debulking surgery uh to
reduce the tumor down. But now he knew
that even though they say it was he knew
that it could come back and definitely
it did come back and it came back slow.
Um and then then he had a third debunk.
Now here's the funny thing. Uh uh they
told Pablo at the beginning when it was
first diagnosed, you have an inoperable
glyopblastone. Inoperable.
Now we had it operated on three times.
So um uh which is nuts. Like I have an
inoperable tumor that you operated on
three times. So So uh during during the
um uh Labor Day break, which is last
August, uh I was sitting here on a
YouTube with Pablo and I said, "Pablo,
how do you feel?" I feel great. He says,
"We're thinking about having them go in
and get the last residual mass left."
Now, he's out. He's This is 2024.
He was diagnosed in 2014, and now here
it's 2020, it's 10 years, 10 years with
a glyopblastoma. Now he says um I said
of all the surgeries that you've had and
we were laughing about his inoperable
tumor being operated on three times and
he's had got married he's had two kids
his wife is pregnant all the stuff that
he's had that he would have never had
had he done standard of care because
you're going to die from the radiation
and the chemo. So um and we were joking.
So I said to Pablo, "Of all these things
you've had, what is is there any you're
walking, you have exercise, you're
you're you have a relatively calm
lifestyle, the kids are there." He says,
"The only thing I I can't feel when I
when I push my thumb and forefinger
together, I can't feel them together.
It's I I know they're moving, but I
can't I said, "Do you mean you tell me
of all this surgery?" That's the only
thing.
I'm walking. I'm talking. He has a
seizures occasionally. That's true. He
has a couple of seizures. Every now and
then he had a seizure. So, so we were
laugh and my doctor Thomas Durier, MD,
PhD, was on my my team here as a
clinical scientist with me. We were
talking to him how just like you guys
were talking. So, um, we get a we get a
uh a call uh uh five days later, Pablo
decided to go to surgery to get the last
residual uh piece of tumor removed. And
we have a picture of Pablo uh coming out
of the he has all the bandages on his
head. He's got all the tubes coming out
of him. He's got his thumbs up. Thumbs
up. I did good. So his wife comes down.
They're talking. He's doing really well.
That night he dies from a massive
cerebral hemorrhage as the result of the
surgical procedure. He did not die from
the tumor. He died as a consequence of
the surgical procedure. uh a massive s
so how long could Pablo have lived had
he not decided on that surgical
procedure the answer is we don't know
all all we know is that he chose a
different path to manage his glyopblasto
very different than what the standard of
care would be and I I published a paper
showing that when you cut out the tumor
re real quick and then irdiate and and
uh um uh do chemo temolomide
uh you you create a great wound in the
brain and then to reduce the swelling
you give highdose steroids which make
your blood sugar go through the roof. So
in normal standard of care, you create
an environment that facilitates the
availability of glucose and glutamine to
the tumor. And and we haven't that's why
we haven't made any advance in a hundred
years because every surgical treatment
of glyopblasto in every major medical
school on the planet does the same damn
thing. Surgery immediately, sometimes
you have to do, not always, immediately,
radiation and chemo and all this other
stuff. and you free up the two fuels
driving the return of the beast. And I
told them that over and over again and
they continue to irdiate people with
brain tumors. And I'm telling you, even
though I published all this information,
give the mechanism of action, all this
stuff, they ignore it. And and and
that's one of the reasons we haven't
made any advances in a hundred years.
And and listen, we have a problem in
science. my my friend um Greg Glassman
who who used to own CrossFit, he was the
head of CrossFit. Um he now has the
broken science initiative. He runs that.
And uh we we we look at uh lack of
reproducibility in science publica in in
cancer uh in the top scientific
journals, Nature Cell Science, all these
different journals about how one study
can't reproduce the other study and it's
like back and forth. Nobody knows what's
going on. But when you look at the
survival curves for people with
glyopblasto it is unbelievably
consistent from one hospital to the next
all over the world to survive more than
17 or two years two and a half years is
rare to survive four years is more rare
and to survive five years is like you
know three or four percent and survive
10 years is almost zero all right and
every med major medical school on the
planet shows the exact reproducibility
and I'm saying How could so many studies
be so incredibly reproducible? Because
they're all doing the same thing that
they're all doing and they're not
getting any different results. Pablo
chose a different path. Pablo showed
that if you go a different way, you can
possibly live far far longer than you
could possibly imagine. But then they
say to, "Oh, he's a fluke. An end of
one. Oh, we can't do that." I says,
"Man, if I had a drug from a a
pharmaceutical company that took a GBM
patient and showed that he could live 10
years, are you kidding me?" They'd be
all over that drug, everybody in the
world. But because he chose a diet
lifestyle change, nobody wants to touch
it with a 10-ft pole.
>> That's amazing. Well, Dr. Seafford, you
have written a book uh I believe Cancer
and Metabolic Disease, correct?
>> Yes.
>> Talk to us a little bit about that where
people can get that and let us know
about your website, foundation for
metabolic cancer.com.
>> Yeah. Well, the foundation it's Travis
Kristofferson's foundation. Uh it's it's
I I that's uh I I most of my money most
of my support for our research comes
from private foundations and
philanthropy. Um and Travis
Christophersonson's foundation for
cancer metabolic therapies. It's a 503
foundation. He supports our research
here at Boston College. I cannot accept
personally money from from anyone. uh it
has to either go through the university
or it has to go through private some
people have their own private
foundations and they support us or
Travis Christopherson's foundation. I've
written only one book that book uh I
know there are other books on the web
saying that I wrote them. I did not.
Unfortunately, there are some folks that
try to take advantage of of what we do.
But um I I the book you showed was my
only book. Uh it I'm sorry. I apologize
for the cost. I had no choice in
deciding the cost of that book. It was
John Wy uh and Sons that that chose that
price. Uh and I know it's people like,
"Oh, I want to buy a book for 15 or 20
bucks." This was like 110 $30 or
something.
>> Yeah. Well, no. I I know. I I didn't I
didn't set the price.
>> They're blaming me.
>> They're blaming me. I'm sorry. I
apologize, man. Oh,
>> you know,
>> so so anyway, that book was the
foundation and then from the studies in
this book, I we started to do
peer-reviewed studies based on the
platform of this book and that's why we
developed the press pulse therapeutic
strategy and all this new science that
is coming out supporting the science as
to what I'm saying. The science is the
truth. You must do it again and do it
again and do it again and reproduce it,
reproduce it, reproduce it because if
you do that like we and others are
doing, it's that's the solution. That's
the future of cancer management. It will
be metabolic therapy. I just don't know
how long it's going to take for the
field to adjust uh economically uh
perspectively. It's going to take some
major readjustments in how we do that.
But if you want to keep people alive
longer with a higher quality of life, uh
this will be ultimately the way to go.
>> So my last question is where do people
find this protocol? You know, how how
would they implement this protocol that
you have? You know, if I got cancer
today, I'd want to do that, but I
wouldn't even know where to start.
>> Yeah. Well, what I've done is give
people kits of information for free.
>> Uh they they emailed me. I said all I
asked them I said I says if the kit
helps you and you feel better make a
donation to Travis Christopherson's
foundation.
>> Okay.
>> A lot of people don't but I the the the
idea is I think when people get
something free they think it mustn't
have any use.
>> Yeah. They don't put any value on it.
That's why it's so important to charge
something even it's a small amount.
>> I can't do that. I I'm not I don't
charge I can't charge anybody for
anything. People want to make money they
give me money they got to go to go to
Travis. can't accept or they give it to
the university and the university then
filters it through to me. But
personally, I cannot if someone handed
me a $100,000 check, I give it to Travis
and Travis then filters it through my
university back into our research
program. So, so that's the way we keep
our program going. It's philanthropy and
private foundations that uh support my
big team next door that are working on
the pre-clinical clinical uh translation
of this whole thing. And you're right,
at the beginning you were given millions
and millions of dollars for breast
cancer, running, jumping, and all this
stuff. And then you say, "Where's all
that money going? The more money we give
to breast cancer, the more people dying
from breast cancer." How how you explain
this? Nobody ever asks for the
accountability. Where's all that money
going? How come there's no
accountability?
>> And so many people think that all these
marathons and the Susan Coleman
Foundation, they're all so noble. And it
just makes you wonder, are they all
about the money? Is it just all about
the finances?
>> All about the finances. And then and
then when you find out where does the
money go, okay, oh, we do give they say,
"Oh, we have research here. Look at what
we're doing." They're looking at gene
mutations. They're hunting for gene
mutations and it's not a metab it's not
a genetic disease.
>> It's a metabolic disease. So, you might
as well take the money and put it in the
toilet and flush it down. It's not going
to help. Um, even even the moonshot
projects that were started by uh Barack
Obama and then and then Biden as the as
the vice president, Biden as the
president, the moonshot, the moon the
moonshot was hundred million dollars put
into imunotherapies. Imunotherapies are
based on the sematic mutation theory of
cancer, not on the mitochondrial
metabolic theory of cancer. So, a lot of
that moonshot money is might as well
send it to the moon. Most of it's not
going to do anything. Uh, yes, there
will be some success. I'm not denying we
do have success. About 20% of people
that get imunotherapies get long-term
survivability. About 60% doesn't do
anything relative. And 20% are actually
killed faster than the tumor. It's
called hyper progressive disease. Hyper
progressive disease. Nobody likes to
talk about that. But the drug companies
do not hide this information. If you
listen to the drug companies at night,
Katruda, Abdivo, they spend more time
telling you how the drug is going to
kill you than how it's going to work.
>> You do.
>> They're not lying.
>> I've never seen so many drug commercials
that I've seen in the last three to four
years and I go over my mom's and she'll
have basketball on or sports and I look
at her, I'm like, I just cannot believe
the number of of pharmaceutical
commercials. And then they talk about,
you know, the side effects maybe.
This is crazy. It's insanity. And yet
people are lined up the next day to go
to their doctor to get those
prescriptions. It's just absolutely
mindboggling.
>> Yeah, but they're not lying. They can't
say, "Oh, the drug companies are lying
to us." They're not. They're telling you
exactly this drug will kill you.
>> Well, Dr. Seafed, we want to thank you
for coming on here. Randy, I learned
more here in about uh an hour and 10
minutes than I've learned probably in
all of college. What about you?
>> Oh, I never learned any of this in
college, but I tell you this, this is
good down in the dirt information. I
would hope that people are paying more
attention to what you said because
you're giving giving us I don't know the
scientific terms in the process. So it
sounds like to me there's a little bit
of hope. Well, I hope people value this
because like you said, he can't take
he's not making money off of this. He
didn't set the price of his own book.
He's not in this for the money. He's in
this for the truth and the knowledge and
to give people hope and and a future and
a and a healthier life. So, I just want
to commend you, sir, for being so noble
and uh bold and and and taking on such a
an awesome
career for 40 plus years. It's amazing.
>> Well, thank you very much. It's a real
pleasure to be here.
>> I'd like to have you come back on in the
future if you can and if you're willing
to come on and talk about some more
updates and just uh some progress you've
continually made.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, we've done that. Now
that getting back to what you said
earlier was uh we put we just put a big
paper in with over 30 authors uh on a
protocol treatment for glyopblasto that
can be used for almost all cancers. If
you were to take this to any men MD uh
they could say I can do that but the
problem is the system does not allow
them to do that and that's one and
that's one of the tragedies. So so how
will the system change? It will come
from the people. The people must be
angry. The people must the people must
demand metabolic therapy.
>> And when enough people demand it, you
will get it. But it's not going to come
from the top. It's got to come from the
bottom.
>> Right. There it is. The words of the
people again, Randy. We hear that in all
all these podcasts, no matter what the
topic. So, Dr. Seaffrey, thanks so much
for being on here, my friend. Hope you
have a great 2025 and just keep doing
awesome research and sharing truth.
>> Well, thank you very much.
>> All right. Take care. See you. Fear.